# automated-data-collection
Scripts for automating data collection of prototype sensor for data analysis and product evaluation.

There were two scenarios that data had to be collected from:
1. An experimental setup -> experiment_interface.py
2. Industrial machine -> sensor_only.py

## Impact of the scripts:

The first stage of the project involved collecting experimental data from a prototype sensor. Initially, this data collection was a very tedious and long process with lots of calibration to the experimental setup and could only collect very limited amount of data (350 samples). However, the script written had overcome those problems and automated the data collection process. This reduced the amount of time spent collecting a whole set of data from 20 minutes to 3 minutes, raising the amount of good quality data for analysis. Moreover, automating the data collection to generate data at a higher rate has helped with the progress of evaluating the prototype.

The second stage of the project involved collecting data from an industrial machine to determine if the sensor would perform just as well under less ideal conditions. Without the sensor_only.py script, the data collection would have to be repeatedly collected in chunks rather than a stream of data. This was very useful for making sure that useful information is not lost between each batch of data. Not to mention, the script made it easy to collect 10 minutes of data with a press of a few buttons.

## Further details:

In the experimental setup, a signal has to be generated by the computer to collect ground truths and the sensor has to pick up the signal. These data are collected with varying levels of signal strength which are stored in csv files for further analysis. The goal of the analysis is to determine if the data from the sensor matches the theory of the sensor's operation, and to quantitatively assess the accuracy of the sensor. Although the readings was slightly noisy, the results of the analysis suggest that the sensor showed promising potential for becoming a viable product.





